# Zomato Sales Analysis Dashboard - Final Project

### Author: Jacob Irsan

[View Dashboard on Tableau](https://public.tableau.com/app/profile/jacob.irsan/viz/Book1_17272607929740/ZomatoSalesAnalysisDashboard?publish=yes)

## Overview

This project includes various visualizations, dashboards, and analyses performed on the Zomato dataset. The main objective is to uncover insights from sales trends, top-performing restaurants, and regional performance to help businesses make data-driven decisions.

## Project Structure

### 1. **Sales Trend Analysis**
   - Visualized sales trends over time to understand fluctuations in revenue.
   - Insights into peak periods and sales declines, helping to identify seasonality and trends.

### 2. **Top Performing Restaurants**
   - Identified the top-performing restaurants by sales and orders.
   - Insights on the best-performing restaurants and their success factors.

### 3. **Regional Sales Performance**
   - Analyzed sales by region to determine the top-performing regions.
   - Compared performance across different cities, with a particular focus on Tirupati.

### 4. **Customer Spending Trends**
   - Analyzed average order value (AOV) to uncover customer spending behavior.
   - Highlighted regions or time periods with the highest spending customers.

## Key Visualizations

The dashboard contains the following key visualizations:
- Sales performance over time.
- Top restaurant analysis by orders and revenue.
- Regional sales comparison.
- Customer spending trends.

## Technologies Used
- **Tableau**: For data visualization and dashboard creation.
- **Excel/CSV**: Data preparation and cleaning.
  
## How to Access
Click on the [link to the Tableau Dashboard](https://public.tableau.com/app/profile/jacob.irsan/viz/Book1_17272607929740/ZomatoSalesAnalysisDashboard?publish=yes) to explore the interactive visualizations.

## Conclusion

This dashboard provides actionable insights into Zomato's sales performance. It allows stakeholders to identify trends, optimize restaurant performance, and make data-driven decisions to boost business growth.

